# (Experimental) Gear Warning System
## Description:
My mechanical limit-switch based gear warning gave me a bit of grief at the start of the soaring season this year.  During winter maintenance I moved both the spoiler and gear position switches but failed to reposition them properly.  Consequently, on the first flight of the season I had to jam a pen into the spoiler's limit switch to get it to stop annoying me!  Perhaps I should have just flown with the gear down ... it wasn't going to be a serious cross-country flight anyway.
So pretty typical of me I decided that in addition to spending five minutes repositioning my spoiler's limit switch, why not spend about that many hours converting the gear warning system to a reed-switch based one!  It's only a matter of time and money and having neither makes this an ideal project.
And now to share my grief, let me make available the design components you will need to make one of your own.  Well, you will still need the buzzer itself, wiring, and most importantly, the magnet attached somewhere to your spoiler and gear handles.  In my case this was accomplished by embedding a magnet in 3d-printed brackets attached to these handles.  Pretty clean, if I say so myself though I have every confidence you can do better!
So here's what you will find in this repository:
- a KiCad-based project for the reed-switched based design: the spoiler and gear warning PCBs are very similar, differing only in the type of reed switch (NO vrs NC) and an additional connector on the GearWarning board to daisy chain the logic.
- gerbers for the PCBs: though you can order these boards directly from OshPark for $2.45/$1.50 (at the time of this writting).  Browse to their [sharing link](https://oshpark.com/shared_projects) and search for GearWarning and SpoilerWarning.
- a [digikey.com](https://www.digikey.com/short/jb349drd) parts list sufficient for building out these boards.
